# 4AP-EEG 
The dF/F of individual ROI traces is calculated then per segment by subtracting the mean of the lowest 10 percent of the fluorescence values within the segment (i.e., baseline) from each fluorescence value, divided by that baseline:

dF/F=(F-10th Percentile of F)/ 10th Percentile of F                [1]

4-AP-induced activity is characterized by large and relatively long-lasting deviations of the raw fluorescence from baseline (Wenzel M, et al., 2017). To identify a proper baseline avoiding the impact of such events, we computed the interquartile range (IQR) value of the PMT-corrected fluorescence in every uninterrupted epoch of acquisition (i.e., segment) in vehicle for each mouse and use their maximum value over all segments as a so-called “IQR-threshold”. The 4-AP segments with IQR value below the IQR threshold for that mouse are identified as quiet. The average 10th percentile of the PMT-corrected fluorescence of the quiet segments is used as the baseline for the less quiet segments in the dF/F estimation below. 

To account for the different noise levels in different ROIs, we generate a “synthetic” distribution (per ROI) by “mirroring” the dF/F values of the frames with dF/F values less than the median of their observed distribution per the entire recording. We then compute the standard deviation of that (synthetic) distribution dist(dF/F) and use that to calculate the z-scored dF/F as follows:

z scored dF/F=(dFF-mean(dFF))/std(dist(dF/F)) 						          [2]

If the z score estimation is performed per segment, then the choice  of a different segment baseline for the df/f estimation in the previous step, has no effect on the z scores. That is, we can simply apply equation [1] for the df/f estimation in every segment, before proceeding to the z score estimation also in every segment.

Motion-correction algorithms demonstrate limited effectiveness in correcting tissue pulsation artifacts during high-speed resonant scanning as compared to optical recording involving conventional galvanometers (Wenzel M. et al., 2017). To attenuate this issue and facilitate the fit of local plateaus, the z-scored dF/F of individual neurons was filtered with a Savitzky-Golay (S-G) smoothing envelope that is tolerant of sharp changes in the filtered signal (A. Savitzky and M.J.E. Golay, 1964). The minimal duration of the local plateaus in the vehicle was used to set the window size along with an order 4 local polynomial, which is typically used in S-G smoothing envelopes and works well in different domains. A sensitivity analysis on the impact of 3 window sizes at least equal to the minimal duration of the local plateaus in the vehicle  (101, 211 and 511 frames) yielded the choice of 211 frames as a compromise between smoothing and loss of details during the fit of local plateaus with a sigmoid.

We develop a procedure to identify the epochs of significant fluorescence activity in the post 4-AP recording: we calculate noise intervals for each 4AP neuron based on the largest z scores of vehicle neurons. For that, we find the frames with z scores less than the 99.9th percentile of the vehicle neuron's z score. These frames are the noise intervals. We count the consecutive frames of the noise intervals. If there are intervals with less than [a fixed number of] consecutive frames, they are no longer considered as noise interval frames. We count inter-arrival time of remaining noise intervals of the previous step. If inter-arrival time is small (less than 100 frames), then it will no longer be considered as an inter-arrival interval but it will get concatenated together with the prior and following noise interval. Inter-arrivals of larger duration remain the same. Define as (local) valleys the “cleaned up" noise intervals of the previous step. Define as (local) plateaus the in-between frames. Plateaus correspond to epochs of significant activity. Create a time series for each neuron with 0 at frames of valleys and 1 at plateau frames (this is useful for the global plateau/valley definition as well as the matching of global and local plateaus). The concatenation and elimination thresholds have been defined based on the aforementioned duration threshold. 

A “global plateau” is then defined, starting at the frame when a small percentage of neurons are at their own local plateau (i.e., engagement threshold) and ends at the first frame when the aforementioned neuronal engagement threshold is crossed.  The engagement threshold is selected to be sufficiently small for being able to capture well the entire evolution of the burst of activity, from its start until its end, consistently across mice (see Figures ...). The concatenation and elimination process is also applied on global plateaus, as in local plateaus. The local and global plateaus serve as “auxiliary” markers of the periods of abnormal events in order to characterize the neuronal activity and recruitment process in the ictal events.
After defining the plateaus and valleys on a single neuron level it is time to define them for the entire neuronal population as well. The population or global events are based on the aggregation of the single neuron events: We sum the time series per frame in order to create the aggregate signal based on which we will define the global valleys and plateaus. We find the frames with less than a percentage of neurons having local plateaus simultaneously in order to define the global level noise intervals. We do steps of the procedure followed for single neurons to end up with global valleys and plateaus respectively.
